Student loans Whether you are preparing for college, attending school, or already repaying your student loans, we have tools and resources to help you make the best decisions for you. English Español Select the option that best fits your situation: I am looking for information about getting student loans I am looking for information about existing student loans Getting a student loan Get started Basics Learn about different ways to pay for college You have a choice about how you pay for your education. Understanding your choices can help you make the right decision for your situation. Read more Compare your college costs and financial aid offers Be sure you know whether you are being offered grants, scholarships, work study, or loans. If you’re weighing multiple financial aid offers, our Paying for College tool can help you compare your offers. Use our comparison tool Find out how to apply for student loans You must complete the FAFSA to be eligible for any federal student loans or grants. Read more Explore basics Key terms Co-signer Cost of attendance FAFSA® Federal student loans Grant GI Bill® Private student loans Student loan servicer Subsidized loan Total loan balance Unsubsidized loan Work study Explore key terms Understand your situation Common issues You are applying for student loans, but don’t know how much to borrow Your grants and scholarships don’t cover the cost of attendance You are a parent and want to borrow student loans for your child’s education Explore common issues Know your rights Servicemembers have protections for both federal and private student loans. If your school closes while you are enrolled, you may be able to discharge your loans. You are considering co-signing a student loan Explore your rights Take action How-to guides How to choose the right school for you How to apply for student loans How to manage your college money Explore how-to guides Submit a complaint Having trouble with a financial product or service? If you've already tried reaching out to the company and still have an issue, you can submit a complaint. Tell us about your issue—we'll forward it to the company and work to get you a response, generally within 15 days. Start a complaint Repaying student loans Get started Basics Learn how to find information about your student loans It’s important to understand the terms of your student loan so that you know how much you owe, when to begin paying, and how much to pay. Read more Explore student loan repayment options Paying off your student debt can be confusing. Walk through your options to pay off your loans. Read more Learn about repayment programs for people in public service There are programs to help you manage your federal student loan debt while pursuing a career in public service. Read more Explore basics Key terms Co-signer release Deferment Default Discharge due to disability or death Extended Repayment Forbearance Graduated Repayment Income-Driven Repayment Plans Loan consolidation Public Service Loan Forgiveness Standard Repayment Student loan servicer SCRA Explore key terms Understand your situation Common issues You can’t afford your student loan payment You are considering consolidating or refinancing your student loan You have co-signed on a student loan that is in default Explore common issues Know your rights How do I avoid student loan scams? If you are serving or have served in the military you may be eligible for loan relief. You have rights when dealing with debt collectors Explore your rights Take action How-to guides How to find out the balance on your student loans How to apply for income-driven repayment plans How to change your student loan repayment plan Explore how-to guides Submit a complaint Having trouble with a financial product or service? If you've already tried reaching out to the company and still have an issue, you can submit a complaint. Tell us about your issue—we'll forward it to the company and work to get you a response, generally within 15 days. Start a complaint Page last modified Dec. 22, 2025 @ 10:04 AM EST View older versions of this page at our public archive.