Debt collection Debt collection issues can be challenging. You don't have to face them alone. Our resources, including guidance on the CFPB’s Debt Collection Rule, can help you understand how debt collection works and what your rights are. English Español Understand how the CFPB’s Debt Collection Rule can help you On November 30, 2021, the Debt Collection Rule became effective. The rule clarifies how debt collectors can communicate with you, including what information they’re required to provide you. Learn more about the new debt collection rule Get started Basics Why a debt collector is contacting you A debt collector may be trying to contact you because a creditor believes you are past due on the payments you owe on a debt. Read more Learn what could happen if you avoid a debt collector Ignoring or avoiding a debt collector is unlikely to make the debt collector stop contacting you. If you believe you do not owe the debt, you should tell the debt collector. Read more Learn about some examples of "unfair" practices by a debt collector The Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA) says that a debt collector is not allowed to use unfair practices in trying to collect a debt. Read more Explore basics Key terms Credit counselor Debt Collection Rule Debt collector Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA) Garnishment Harassment by a debt collector Judgment Limited-Content Message Original creditor Statute of limitations Validation Notice Explore key terms Understand your situation Common issues You do not owe the debt or want proof of the debt The debt collector is calling you non-stop You are wondering whether to use a credit counselor or a debt settlement company Explore common issues Know your rights There are laws that limit what debt collectors can say or do You have the right to tell a debt collector to stop contacting you Only in rare cases can debt collectors take Social Security or VA benefits Explore your rights Take action How-to guides How to reply to a debt collector How to negotiate a settlement with a debt collector What to do if a creditor or debt collector sues you Explore how-to guides Submit a complaint Having trouble with a financial product or service? If you've already tried reaching out to the company and still have an issue, you can submit a complaint. Tell us about your issue—we'll forward it to the company and work to get you a response, generally within 15 days. Start a complaint Page last modified Oct. 30, 2025 @ 11:11 AM EDT View older versions of this page at our public archive.