Credit reports and scores Your credit reports and scores have an impact on your finances. Our resources can help you better understand them, learn how to correct errors, and improve your credit record over time. English Español Know the data on your credit report You know your credit report is important, but the information that credit reporting companies use to create that report is just as important—and you have a right to see that data. Use our list of credit reporting companies to request and review each of your reports. Browse the list Get started Basics Learn how to get your credit reports You should check your credit reports at least once a year to make sure there are no errors that could keep you from getting credit or the best available terms on a loan. Read more Learn how to request a copy of your tenant screening report if you’ve been denied housing Once you request your credit reports, it’s important to know what kind of information you should be on the lookout for as you review them. Read more Learn about the difference between credit scores and credit reports Your credit reports and credit scores are both critical to your financial health, but they play very different roles. Read more Explore basics Key terms Credit invisible Credit reporting company Credit report Credit score Fair Credit Reporting Act Fraud alert Identity theft Military active duty alert Security freeze Specialty consumer reporting company Tenant screening report Thin credit file / No credit file Explore key terms Looking for ways to help others with money questions? Browse our database to see consumer complaints about credit reports Watch our webinar to get credit basics in four short modules See more resources to use with the people you serve Understand your situation Common issues Your credit application was denied because of your credit report or score You don’t have enough credit history and want to build your credit record You think you may have been the victim of fraud or identity theft Explore common issues Know your rights Requesting your credit reports will not hurt your credit score Check for available protections that may apply to renters You can also request your consumer reports from specialty consumer reporting companies Explore your rights Take action How-to guides How to dispute an error on your credit report Tips for building and keeping a good credit score How to tell a reputable credit counselor from a bogus credit repair company Explore how-to guides Submit a complaint Note: You should submit a dispute directly to both the credit reporting company that sent you the report and the company that provided the information. If you've already tried reaching out to the company and still have an issue, you can submit a complaint to the Bureau. Tell us about your issue—we'll forward it to the company and work to get you a response, generally within 15 days. Start a complaint Page last modified Jul. 14, 2025 @ 04:06 PM EDT View older versions of this page at our public archive.