Mortgages Whether you’re thinking of buying a home, already have a home loan, or are having trouble paying your mortgage, we have resources to help you every step of the way. English Español Getting a mortgage Buying a House: Tools and resources for homebuyers Whether you’re just thinking about buying a home or about to close, we help you take control of the process. Get started Maintaining a mortgage Paying your mortgage is important. We can help you understand how to read your mortgage statement, where to get help if you are struggling to pay your mortgage, and more. Having trouble paying your mortgage? If you are having trouble making your mortgage payments, take control by reaching out to your mortgage servicer and a HUD-approved housing counselor. Learn more Get started Basics Understand your monthly mortgage statement The first step to maintaining your mortgage is to pay your mortgage on time, every time. Understanding your monthly mortgage statement will help. Read more Know why your mortgage payment might change Your mortgage payment may change for a few reasons – for example, you have an adjustable rate mortgage and the interest rate changed. Read more Learn what you can do if you have trouble paying your mortgage Avoid foreclosure and mortgage scams with these four steps. Read more Explore basics Key terms Automatic payment Bi-weekly payment Delinquent Escrow Force-placed insurance Forbearance Foreclosure Loan modification Loss mitigation Refinance Reverse mortgage Servicer Explore key terms Understand your situation Common issues You’re having trouble making your monthly mortgage payments The company you make your monthly mortgage payments to has changed You’re having problems with an escrow account (taxes and insurance) Explore common issues Know your rights Your servicer should try to help you find ways to avoid foreclosure You have foreclosure protections under state and federal law Inherited a home? The servicer should tell you how to prove ownership Explore your rights Take action How-to guides How to find a HUD-approved housing counseling agency How to cancel your Private Mortgage Insurance (PMI) How to get information or dispute an error about your mortgage Explore how-to guides Get help If you are having an issue with your mortgage, reach out to a HUD-approved housing counseling agency. Click here to find an agency in your area . You can also call the HOPE™ Hotline . Submit a complaint Having trouble with a financial product or service? If you've already tried reaching out to the company and still have an issue, you can submit a complaint. Tell us about your issue—we'll forward it to the company and work to get you a response, generally within 15 days. Start a complaint Page last modified Jul. 14, 2025 @ 04:08 PM EDT View older versions of this page at our public archive.